Mudlark Media Network was founded as a reciprocal escalation in response to the institutional and systemic failures left in the wake of asymmetrical violence.

Justice can now only be found in direct adversarial confrontation of the public servants and media figures whose actions caused these failures of justice. Through public visibility, we hope to expose those who possessed the authority, power or mandate to intervene for their role in the perpetuation of these forms of violence. Society now operates in a space where trafficking networks have been proven to be operating at the highest levels of power in the world, a reality that has fundamentally altered the social contract between the public and its institutions. It is now a matter of record that trust in authority can no longer be granted. Trust has been forfeited through decades of systemic complicity. These failures affect us all, and even those lucky enough not to be a victim of these forms of asymmetrical violence are likely still a victim of its toxic effects on our collective cultures. 

These forms of asymmetric violence are cruelly compounded by institutional and systemic silence, and our goal is ensuring these cases are documented and presented to the public. Our commitment to radical visibility stands in recognition that systemic abuse and violence thrive in the absence of public action; therefore, we operate with the intent of making visible the hidden corruptions. We believe that true accountability is impossible without an uncompromising level of transparency regarding who failed and how they failed.

We intend to provide a space where stories can be safely voiced without the influence of corporate or state interests. Our mission seeks to provide a framework for those who have experienced violence to tell their stories on their own terms and in their own way. As a mixed media network we are aware that not everyone speaks their truth the same way. Whether stories are expressed through written or spoken word, song or art, this flexibility allows us to move beyond clinical reporting and present a work that is as nuanced and complex as the reality it describes. 

Mudlark Media is a network. 

We are not a company or corporation.  Our structure rejects traditional hierarchy in favor of a flat collaborative field that is protected by a single point of accountability. This is an intention to remain uncompromised by financial interests or institutional drift. Individuals within the network operate without a vertical command structure. There are no managers, supervisors, or directors tasked with overseeing the labor of others. The network does not authorize, direct, real-world field operations, and as such all physical assemblies by members are done entirely in a personal capacity. All on-site labor, including field reporting, audio/visual recording, and interviews are undertaken entirely as an independent actor. By remaining outside the framework of formal corporate registration, the network resists influence by the regulatory, financial, or bureaucratic pressures that often compromise our independence.

Mudlark Media is a network of volunteers. 

We are a decentralized collective maintained exclusively through the efforts of volunteers. Participation in the network is open to any willing to contribute their time. All involvement with the network is focused entirely through the self-assignment of labor. Any individual can contribute to any project, or none, as well as start any new project for which they find motivation. Participation does not constitute employment, and does not carry titles or roles. Members are strictly prohibited from using Mudlark Media as a professional credential or institutional authority to gain leverage, or property.  We do not solicit specific skill sets, nor do we maintain a criteria of professional qualification. We function as a gathering of individuals contributing what they choose, according to their own capacity and motivations.

Mudlark Media is a zero-fund operation. 

We do not accept movement of capital in any form. By design, the network operates without a budget, overhead, or financial responsibility of any kind. The network does not possess a bank account, nor does it facilitate, process, or hold currency. To ensure total editorial and operational independence, the project maintains a zero-funding mandate; we do not solicit or accept financial donations, grants, or paid subscriptions. We decline all forms of monetary support to maintain a specific operational environment. By maintaining a zero-fund status, we remove the possibility of financial hierarchy or outside leverage, keeping our focus exclusively on the dissemination of public information.

Mudlark Media is a public work.

All findings, data, and information produced within this network are public. We do not maintain proprietary or restricted information.  Information given to the network is done only on a voluntary basis, you are not required to identify yourself to contribute. In the interest of transparency and collective good, all information generated or held within the network remains accessible. Any work or data given to the network grants perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free license to host, archive, and distribute that work as part of the public domain. As a founding principle, we believe information withheld from the view of the public is a detriment to the safety and wellbeing of all people. The only exception to this rule is to protect the identity of victims. 

All baseline organizational liability within these bounds falls directly on The Registrant. Engaging in criminal acts, including but not limited to hacking, extortion, data theft, harassment, or physical trespassing, is outside the scope of this liability framework. To protect the collective independence of Mudlark Media, volunteers agree that any breach of network rules or engagement in illegal acts is strictly an individual liability. By participating in the Mudlark Media Network, you agree to operate by the rules of the network. Mudlark Media is intended as a single-vector liability entity for any authorized work produced by anyone authorized within the network. 

We invite collaboration from those who wish to offer their time toward our shared objectives. If you are also committed to lifting the voices of survivors, you can join the network just by reaching out and describing the work you are most motivated to contribute toward. 


